# Re-identification Risk of Medical Imaging-Based Deep Learning Models

This repository contains the code associated with my undergraduate capstone project for the fulfillment of my degree in cognitive systems, which was completed with supervisors at Mayo Clinic Platform.

Abstract: This report studies the risk of patient re-identification from the parameters of models trained on de- identified radiology images. Re-identification is examined through the lens of image reconstruction via model inversion, from which identifiable information is extracted from reconstructed images. Previous inversion attacks have assumed access to additional information such as gradients or held-out training data, and generally do not consider re-identification. We present a two-stage reconstruction approach that requires only a trained model and its parameters, and additionally predict demographics from reconstructed images. Rather than reconstructing private training data by optimizing the images themselves, as prior methods do, we optimize a generator to produce images that lie along the target model’s training data manifold, in which internal statistics and parameters from a frozen checkpoint are used as proxies for its true structure. Moreover, we demonstrate that model architecture and presence of memorization significantly contribute to re-identification, where an overfit vision transformer (ViT) outperforms overfit and non-overfit convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and a non-overfit ViT. Cases in which patient re- identification would be possible from reconstructed images and their predicted demographics, as well as potential mitigation strategies, are also discussed.
